Editorial suggestions from Benjamin Kaduk's IESG review (qpack) (#4789)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-qpack.md

attacker can observe the encoded length and infer that the guess was correct.

This is possible even over the Transport Layer Security Protocol (TLS, see

> {{?TLS=RFC8446}}) and QUIC Transport Protocol (see {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}), because

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{?TLS=RFC8446}}) and the QUIC Transport Protocol (see {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}), because
```
Will probably also need a re-wrap.

while TLS and QUIC provide confidentiality protection for content, they only

> provides a limited amount of protection for the length of that content.

Author: Perhaps we should just not mention TLS at all?

> provides a limited amount of protection for the length of that content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provide a limited amount of protection for the length of that content.
```

Attacks of this nature are possible any time that two mutually distrustful
entities control requests or responses that are placed onto a single HTTP/3
connection. If the shared QPACK compressor permits one entity to add entries to

> the dynamic table, and the other to access those entries to encode chosen field

Author: If you can "access" those entries, you're done already :)

chosen field lines, then the attacker (the second entity) can learn the state
of the table by observing the length of the encoded output.

> For example, requests or responses from mutually distrustful entities occurs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, requests or responses from mutually distrustful entities can occur
```

a field value to result in the field not being compared to the dynamic table
entries in future messages, effectively preventing further guesses.

This response might be made inversely proportional to the length of the
field value. Disabling access to the dynamic table for a given field name might
occur for shorter values more quickly or with higher probability than for longer
values.

> 

Author: This is just  moving the related paragraph up so the note appears at the end.

designed to limit both the peak and stable amounts of memory allocated by an
endpoint.

> The amount of memory used by the decoder is limited by the protocol using

Author: In some sense this is true as it is, but that's not a terribly interesting statement to make -- the encoder can limit its memory usage unilaterally, and could be sloppily implemented and exceed the protocol-conveyed limit.

> The amount of memory used by the decoder is limited by the protocol using

Reviewer 2: 👍

> The amount of memory used by the decoder is limited by the protocol using
> QPACK through the definition of the maximum size of the dynamic table, and the
> maximum number of blocking streams. In HTTP/3, these values are controlled by

Reviewer: I think this is really dependent on the sense of "used by."  The protocol limits the amount of memory the encoder can cause to be consumed at the decoder.  Maybe something like....

```suggestion
QPACK uses the definition of the maximum size of the dynamic table and the
maximum number of blocking streams to limit the amount of memory the
encoder can cause the decode to consume. In HTTP/3, these values are
controlled by
```

setting an appropriate value for the maximum size of the dynamic table. In
HTTP/3, this is realized by setting an appropriate value for the
SETTINGS_QPACK_MAX_TABLE_CAPACITY parameter. An encoder can limit the amount of
state memory it uses and signal a lower dynamic table size than the decoder

> allows to propagate that fact to the decoder (see {{eviction}}).

Reviewer 3: Suggestion:

 An encoder can limit the amount of state memory it uses by choosing a smaller dynamic table size than the decoder allows, and signaling this to the decoder (see {{set-dynamic-table-capacity}}).

Author: Thanks; I pushed that with a slight modification (the signalling is not part of the act of limiting the encoder's state memory, but rather a related but separate act).

Reviewer 3: Sorry I missed this comment earlier and basically reverted to my original text.  While the acts themselves are separate, the second is directly tied to the first -- the encoder can't change the size it is using without also signaling the decoder.

> allows, and signaling this to the decoder (see {{set-dynamic-table-capacity}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows and signaling this to the decoder (see {{set-dynamic-table-capacity}}).
```

                               3   0  custom-key  custom-value
                              ^-- acknowledged --^
                               4   0  :authority  www.example.com

>                               Size=217

Author: The table hasn't changed from the previous state, properly shown as 217 bytes.

>                               Size=217

Reviewer 2: I didn't catch this when @afrind updated examples at my request.  Thanks.

                              ^-- acknowledged --^
                               4   0  :authority  www.example.com
                               5   0  custom-key  custom-value2

>                               Size=214

Author: I attempted to count the difference between `:authoritywww.example.com` and `custom-keycustom-value2`.

Reviewer 3: This looks right too, but it makes me want to re-run the examples through the code I wrote to verify (I made @martinthomson's changes by hand).

Reviewer 3: Wait, let's go to the video tape!  I think 215 is correct.

I re-ran my decoder against the input, and it gets 215.

~~~
DecoderTable:

[1] (s=55) custom-key: custom-value2
[2] (s=57) :authority: www.example.com
[3] (s=54) custom-key: custom-value
[4] (s=49) :path: /sample/path
total size: 215
~~~
[Note: the decoder table prints with HPACK relative indices, hence they are 1 based and in reverse order]

Also verified in the shell:

~~~
# echo -n :authoritywww.example.com | wc -c
25
# echo -n custom-keycustom-value2 | wc -c
23
~~~

And third, I examined the table which has the two values in consecutive rows, and it appears only the "om" hangs over the 'custom-value2'.

Author: Well crap, I can only assume that I typo'd something when checking in the shell.  Sorry about that, and thanks for double-checking.

# encode the prefix
if requiredInsertCount == 0:
  encodeInteger(prefixBuffer, 0, 0, 8)

>   encodeInteger(prefixBuffer, 0, 0, 7)

Author: encodeIndexReference() is shown earlier with a different signature.  I know pythonic things do have optional parameters, but this seems to match the encodeInteger() signature perfectly, so I assume it was just an incomplete edit.  Though, stylistically perhaps the second argument should be `0x00` rather than a literal `0`.

Reviewer 3: This is a good catch, thanks.  The prefix is integers, not references.
